does D dollarization mean the US dollar
the green back is dead you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
in today's video we are going to look at
D dollarization the absolute facts I'm
going to show you so many different
examples of things that are happening
all over the world largely not covered
by the mainstream media but of course
that's why you're here so the first
thing here is this article out of
Fortune that gets into the depths and of
course as always links will be in the
description so you could check it out
but I wanted to cover it and give you a
little summary of what this is all about
because that's going to lead us into the
example after example that I will show
you today trade and investment data in
the last two years dispel the de
globalization and decoupling myths uh as
the US and China competition ignites
reglobalization
so first we have the this de
globalization in a time in which we were
going more and more globalized the
suggestion is that we've flipped that up
on top of its head there is no more
trade between the US and China nothing's
happening and everything is going back
to the way it was or is that really just
a myth well here we have it despite
geopolitical tensions and the efforts to
actually deal with over concentration in
China multinational corporations are not
significantly reducing any dealing with
China can you believe that we're being
told that they are not the case China's
manufacturing capabilities
infrastructure and cost Effectiveness
remain highly competitive making it
challenging for other regions to replace
its role we see yes a little bit of
Vietnam we see with India and other
places but nobody has it dialed in the
way China does okay um I think it's
important to understand this and you'll
see it here as Things become more
multi-polar that's that's an absolute
fact but these multinational
corporations are adapting to What's
Happening by diversifying their
operations across multiple regions to
enhance their resilience against
localized disruptions such as those
caused by the geopolitical conflicts
this adjustment is trying to have you
know a situation that happened in 2020
to never happen again but it is in the
example um you know something that is
just a small piece of the puzzle when
you actually look at the numbers what
about this the start of D dollarization
China's gradual move away from the US
dollar you see this is all about trade
now if I'm a country let's just say
Russia and China we're going to use this
example multiple times today and I want
to deal with each other I talked about
this in my first book and my second book
well if I want to do business I'm I'm
Russia I want to sell oil to China why
would I need to get US Dollars and do an
exchange with those US Dollars why don't
we just do business together we don't
need to have a reserve currency like the
US dollar there in between when the US
has no we're you going to do this we're
going to sanction you we're going to
restrict you we're going to do why are
we playing by their rules why don't we
just do deals between each other and if
we're doing more and more and more deals
there's more liquidity between the two
and there's more of a reason to hold
each other's currency does that mean the
US dollar is dead it's never going to be
H you know it's all gone tomorrow it's
going to be exploded and no no no but we
have to be honest about what's happening
here this is China's gradual move away
from the US doll the share of China
crossb payments and receipts in USD
versus Redmond B I think it's pretty
clear What's Happening Here less and
less and less in US dollar and More in
their currency like I said it isn't
something that's going to change
overnight it's going to take decades
potentially and it's not necessarily
going to ever just go away entirely well
in the case of Russia what did they do
they sold off their treasuries their US
debt not because they wanted to I'm sure
they would have kept it but the US said
we're going to sanction you we're going
to cut you off and so Russia just
basically said all right well I guess
we'll just sell this stuff off and we're
done they figured out another way to do
business they dealt with Asia they went
more to the China and the indias of the
world here you can see the United States
the USD is still dominant there's no
question about that and you could see
the details there
in black and
white but things have changed as
American global hemony ends
multi-alignment
rises in this case Putin says Russians
Chinese brothers forever I read that as
maybe BFFs maybe no okay all right great
90% of all Russia China trade are now
conducted in rubble and Yuan D
dollarization is not only possible but a
strategic imperative it saves money and
predicts
sovereignty that's what's going on
that's what they are
doing but things are happening on all
different levels it's not just China and
Russia Taiwan is selling more to the US
than China in a major shift away from
Beijing of course What's Happening Here
is there is a decoupling to some degree
when it comes to National Security
especially when we talk about the
advanced chips we know that this is not
coming in the way of China so China is
going to say okay for that stuff we're
going to have to obviously make it on
our own we're not going to get it and
it's not going to come from there but
for a lot of like the vast majority of
stuff we know that China is going to
manufacture it and obviously what's
happening with Taiwan and China perhaps
there will be um less and less and less
dealings with each other I'm not sure I
mean I know that China has said hey we
want to reunify and Taiwan is kind of
saying uh no thanks that's going to be
an interesting one very interesting what
I have read in uh Ray Doo's book one one
of his books that I read he basically
said it's not worth the US backing
up you know actually backing them up
because you know bringing them in when
they could simply just say fine we'll
continue our dealings the way we were
doing it nothing's really going to
change for us so you know I don't know
what do you think though I'm actually
curious to to know what you're thinking
about it
because I I could see what dal's talking
about but at the same time we know that
the posturing has clearly been there
right
well the centrality of the US dollar in
international monetary and economic
systems since 1940 the 1940s has been
overwhelming it's a reserve currency
medium Exchange in a unit of account
some countries and regions have
historically attempted to reduce their
Reliance on the dollar dubbed D
dollarization but none of them were
broad-based well now things have
certainly changed this time is different
that's what they say here this content
over the Dollar's Supremacy is more
widespread geographically covering
southeast Asia the Middle East and Latin
America all right and they go on that's
happening it's happening in one part of
the world more so than the rest all
right this is just talking about the
details as of March 2024 over half of
Chinese payments were settled in RMB 42%
settled in USD okay and
so this is just more of that I I don't
want to you know beat a dead horse on it
but a group of emerging Nations could
soon start knocking down one key pillar
of dollar dominance we're talking about
the bricks Nations and this is where
things start to really wake up because
if these bricks Nations which is now
expanded so much because we have the
powerhouses the oil powerhouses of Saudi
Arabia of UAE there are so many new
countries that have been added in there
and they have a lot of resources they
have a lot of population they've got
growth everything in a in a longer term
maybe not right now today but longer
term we can see the writing on the wall
they're going to be using a lot less US
Dollars Saudi Arabia has said
specifically said why do we need to use
US dollar in all of our trade we don't I
mean that's huge they would have never
have said that before and so what can
you do well the number one thing that
you should be doing is you should become
more globalized yourself your
Investments your banking your currency
diversification I talk about this every
single week every single week I discuss
it uh with my finance Friday crew and
then I teach people how to do it on the
Sunday business live you know it's
difficult there's no question about that
to be in a let's say a 9 to-5 job uh and
you're just not aware of this level of
financial education and you just say
well I want to mitigate this well you
know this is a there's a lot of depth
here and that's why I talk for two hours
on Friday two actually plus two hours on
on Friday and two hours plus on Sunday
because it takes a lot of determination
but it can happen Okay this is what I
teach people because I think it's very
important we need the diversification on
all levels if you appreciate that simply
hit that thumbs up button when you do so
you're not only supporting the channel
but you're notifying the algorithms that
hey this guy is worth watching so I want
to thank you for being here today and as
always always I'll see you tomorrow take
care